GAME MECHANICS OVERVIEW

Character skills will be modified by the various weapons in use and force powers that have been activated.

A base character should have a total of 125 skill points distributed between their various skills.   
I would suggest having base skills reflecting the character's attributes in line with who they are (eg Darth Maul very strong).
They will also have 50 base health points at level 1

Characters will receive experience points during after combat based on:
1) the relative strength of their opponent (the stronger the more points they get)
2) hits landed
3) hits taken
4) result of the fight

After accumulating experience points these can be spent on:
1) Levelling up (accumulate enough a character can level up, receiving additional skill points they can allocate to their base stats
                PLUS an additional force power slot, and their health increases)
2) Force powers (powers that can be used to provide buffs to certain skills or provide one-off effects, to be used once per fight)


THE CHARACTER SHEET

Affiliation - determines the type of force powers available
STRENGTH  - affects the damage done by attacks
Weapon Skill - affects the likelihood of landing a successful blow
Agility - Affects the likelihood of avoiding a blow (combines with weapon skill of opponent)
Speed - Affects the time the character has per turn
Vitality - affects the numebr of health points a character has

SPEED POINTS

A characters speed will determine how many acts they can carry out per turn.  When they run out, their turn is over.

Base speed points: 50
Quick attack: 15 points (-50% effectiveness)
Normal Attack: 25 points (no modofier)
Power Attack: 40 points (+50% modifier)
Use minor force power: 15 points
Use major force power: 25 points
Use ultimate force power: 40 points


CHARACTER ATTRIBUTE MECHANICS

Based on 125 skill points, a balanced character has 25 points in each combat category:

Speed, Agility, Strength, Weapon Skill, Agility and Vitality

For every point OVER 25 points, the character will receive a +1% modifier to their rolls, and vice versa for every point under.


ATTACK DAMAGE

A successful attack will have set damage depending on the type of attack.

Quick: 5
Normal: 10
Power: 15

This is then modified according to their strength, the weapon they are using, then any force power in effect, in that order.
For example, if a character has 30 strength, a +20% strength modifier from their sword, and land a normal attack,
the damage will be:   10*1.05*1.2, which comes to 12.6 damage.

AGILITY AND WEAPON SKILLS

Characters will have a base level of a 50% chance of hitting their opponent.

Example 1: 

If they have a weapon skill of 20 that chance decreases by 5%, 1% for each point under the base of 25.  
If their opponent is highly agile and has agility of 30, then that chance decreases further, to only 40% total.

This base chance of a hit is further modified by weapons and force power.

Example 1.1: 

If the lightsabre increases their chance of hitting by 20% (the Darth Vader), and they are using the minor weaponskill force power, 
that chance goes up from 40% to 70%!

Vitality

Vitality can be increased with the heal force power.  Otherwise it is depleted by weapon strikes unti the Jedi/Sith is defeated.
The same principles will apply - so for example if a character has vitality of 30 their base value will increase by 5%, 
bringing the number up to 52.5.


On the subject of the numbers, I think it would be a good idea to round everything up to keep things clean.


